In October 2019, I received an email from Amherst College informing me of the death of Professor Lyle McGeoch, who gave me strength and confidence studying computer science during the LAISS summer program that year. Back then, he seemed health and energetic. For the first time, a great friend has left me forever. What I didn't know was that my grandfather died a few weeks later. This was the first time a member of my family died. Two months later, my father flew to the US to inform me of his death in person and to comfort me. However, even after returning to school, it was difficult to calm down. COVID-19 was reported in Wuhan the day my father returned home, and many inhabitants died; it soon reached my hometown Nanjing. My parents wrote their death wills to make sure I could continue the college education if the worst happens. When the situation in Nanjing began to stabilize, my friends and family in NY were threatened. Massachusetts, where my college is, was soon affected as well. The classes became online, dining hall was closed, and most of the students returned home, including my closest friends. I stayed on the dreadfully empty campus for most of the spring, as my family believed it was the safest place in the world. My parents tried their best to purchase and send me masks to share with the few remaining schoolmates. They reminded me in everyday video calls to disinfect the surfaces I touched, my hands and my hair every time I went out to retrieve food and mail. The process was very tedious, and I frequently skipped meals instead. Loneliness and the constant fear of losing my family made me unable to focus during the day, or fall sleep at night, and I couldn't study and finish assignments properly. Eventually, I returned to NY. Even though NY was heavily affected by the virus, I had my family to accompany me. I learned to cook a few dishes, and frequently did housework and gardening. My aunt, who worked hard at home and followed a strict disease prevention routine, helped me organize my time and protected me from COVID, so that I resumed my normal life and studying. My friends and I encouraged each other, and I helped them with their academics, including one who transferred to TX Austin. By the end of the semester, I handed in the last assignments on time, and received higher grade than in the first semester, when I was excited by the new college environment and spent too much socializing. When I signed up to return to school, I decided to become a physics tutor, not only to help the college, but also to stay in contact with more schoolmates, so we could face the loneliness and fear together.
